h1. Jekyll Quick Man

This Jekyll plugin generates links to man pages on the internet and automatically fills the anchor title with the man pages' description.

For example, for the "ruby(1)(Manpage zum Befehl 'ruby - Interpreted object-oriented scripting language')":http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/ruby.1 command, the following HTML would be rendered:

pre. <a title="Manpage zum Befehl 'ruby - Interpreted object-oriented scripting language'"
href="http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/ruby.1">ruby(1)</a>



h2. Installation

Set the constant @PATH_TO_JEKYLL_SITE@ correctly and run these commands accordingly:

pre. cd ${PATH_TO_JEKYLL_SITE}
echo "gem 'jekyll_quick_man'" >> Gemfile
bundle
echo "require 'jekyll_quick_man'" >> _plugins/ext.rb


*Alternatively* you may accomplish the same without @echo@ and @bundle@:

# Install the plugin by running @gem install jekyll_quick_man@
# Add the line @require 'jekyll_quick_man'@ to *_plugins/ext.rb*



h2. Usage

pre.. # Basic usage
{% man 1 ruby %}

# Requesting a specific target man page
{% man 1 ruby FreeBSD %}

# Requesting a specific target man page
{% man 1 ruby Ubuntu %}



h2. How it works

The plugin relies primarily on the systems' "manpath(1)(determine search path for manual pages)":http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/manpath.1 and "whatis(1)(display manual page descriptions)":http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/whatis.1 commands in order to find the man page discriptions.

On systems that are missing these commands, or if the commands fail to return usable values, **Jekyll Quick Man** will search the descriptions in **_config.yml**.

In order for this to work, the file must contain @man@ data along with the man page name. A section may be specified optionally.

pre. # Example without section
man:
  ruby: Interpreted object-oriented scripting language

pre. # Example with section
man:
  ruby:
    1: Interpreted object-oriented scripting language

If **Jekyll Quick Man** is unable to find a description, the anchor will simply be rendered without one.



h2. Notes

* Typically, the system locale determines the language of the description provided by @whatis@.
* Currently, additional text in the title is rendered in German.
* **Jekyll Quick Man** was written as a replacement for the according tag in _jekyll-beastiepress_. Therefore the tag names ("man") clash, but as the _syntax_ is largely compatible, a transation requires little effort unless other tags of _jekyll-beastiepress_ are requiered.



h2. Possible Improvements

* Support distinction between BSD and Linux distributions in the YAML (eg @man.freebsd.ruby.1@, @man.arch.ruby.1@ or @man.bsd.ruby.1@, @man.linux.ruby.1@)
* Use @whatis@ to determine the section number if user fails to provide it.
* Reduce the title text to distribution, man page name, section and description.



h2. License

Jekyll Quick Man is released under the "MIT License":http://www.opensource.org/licenses/MIT.
